Challenges_2021.md, before:

# 2021 Challenges

Day | Challenge
:---:|---
01 | The challenge involves some simple comparisons and math on a file of integers.
02 | The answer to part 1 is a submarine's final position and depth after executing the movement commands in the input file. Part 2 is similar except the meanings of some commands are interpreted differently.
03 | The input file is a list of 12-digit binary numbers. Bath parts of the challenge are based on determining the most or least common bit value for each position.
04 | The input file are cards and numbers for a bingo game. Part 1 asks which card wins and part 2 asks which is the last card to win.
05 | The input file is a set of lines on a 2D grid composed from the coordinates of the ends. Part 1 is restricted to just horizontal and vertical lines, and asks how many cells have more than one line passing through. Part 2 is the same except diagonal lines at 45 degree angles are also considered.
06 | Simulate fish spawning to determine the number that exist after a given number of days. Part 2 of the challenge increases the number of days to run the simulation, requiring substantial changes to the part 1 code.
07 | Find the optimal way for the group of positions provided in the input file to move to the same position such that the total movement is minimized. Part 2 of the challenge introduces a slightly more complex formula for the cost of moving position.
08 | Model a 7-segment display. Part 1 asks how many times the digits 1, 4, 7 and 8 appear on the display.<br />Part 2 requires the numbers shown on the displays to be deduced.
09 | The input file contains a 2D array of data where each array cell is a single digit. Part 1 asks for a calculation over values lower than adjacent values. Part 2 separates the cells into groups and asks for a calculation based on the size of the groups.
10 | The input file contains a list of lines containing many different opening and closing symbols. The answer to part 1 is based on which lines are corrupt. Part 2 asks for a score based on the symbols that need to be added to correct incomplete lines.
11 | The challenge is a game of life type simulation. Part 1 asks for the state after a given number of iterations whereas part 2 asks for the simulation to be run until it enters a specific state.
12 | The challenge requires a path to be found through a series of connected nodes defined in the input file. Part 1 asks for the number of valid paths, and part 2 is similar but with more relaxed criteria that lead to a much larger set of valid paths.
13 | The input file defines dots placed on a 2D grid followed by instructions to fold the grid either horizontally or vertically along given lines. Part 1 asks for the number of visible dots after all folds are applied. Part 2 of the challenge requires all the folds to be processed and the output displayed to reveal characters forming the final answer.
14 | The input file contains a string and a set of transformation rules. Part 1 requires rules defined in the challenge to be applied repeatedly to obtain the answer. Part 2 increases the number of required iterations.
15 | 🚦Not yet attempted.
16 | The input file is a single hexadecimal string representing a hierarchy of data packets. Part 1 asks for the sum of the packets' version numbers. Part 2 requires calculations to be performed on the packets based on their type and which results in a single number for the outermost packet, which is the answer.
17 | The input file defines a target area, and part 1 asks for the highest trajectory a projectile can take to land in this area. Part 2 asks for the number of initial x and y velocity pairs that result in the projectile landing in this area.
18 | Each line of the input file represents a number in a format defined in the challenge. The challenge also describes math operations that can be performed on this number format. Part 1 asks for the numbers to be added together. Part 2 asks for a math operation to be performed on all pairs of lines in the input file to find the result with the largest magnitude.
19 | The challenge defines a 3D coordinate system within which are 28 scanners and multiple beacons. The input file contains a section for each scanner that lists the relative locations of all the beacons that that scanner can see. Part 1 asks for the number of unique beacons, which requires groups of beacons to be matched from the lists of different scanners. This is made harder by the orientation of the scanners not being known. The answer for part 2 requires the relative positions of the scanners to be determined.
20 | The input file contains binary data and the challenge specifies an operation that is performed on a group of bits in the data. Part 1 asks for the result of applying this operation and part 2 is the result of applying it 50 times.
21 | The challenge defines a dice game and the input file contains the starting positions of two players. Part 1 is to simulate a game until a player wins. The answer for part 2 involves analyzing all games that are possible from the given starting position.
22 | The challenge defines a 3D coordinate system where every cell is initially off. The input file is a list of rules that each either turn a specified group of cells on or off. Part 1 only considers a small region centered on the origin.<br />🚦Part 2 is in progress.
23 | 🚦Not yet attempted.
24 | 🚦Not yet attempted.
25 | 🚦Not yet attempted.

Commit message:

Add solution for 2021 day 15 part 1

Challenges_2021.md, after:

# 2021 Challenges

Day | Challenge
:---:|---
01 | The challenge involves some simple comparisons and math on a file of integers.
02 | The answer to part 1 is a submarine's final position and depth after executing the movement commands in the input file. Part 2 is similar except the meanings of some commands are interpreted differently.
03 | The input file is a list of 12-digit binary numbers. Bath parts of the challenge are based on determining the most or least common bit value for each position.
04 | The input file are cards and numbers for a bingo game. Part 1 asks which card wins and part 2 asks which is the last card to win.
05 | The input file is a set of lines on a 2D grid composed from the coordinates of the ends. Part 1 is restricted to just horizontal and vertical lines, and asks how many cells have more than one line passing through. Part 2 is the same except diagonal lines at 45 degree angles are also considered.
06 | Simulate fish spawning to determine the number that exist after a given number of days. Part 2 of the challenge increases the number of days to run the simulation, requiring substantial changes to the part 1 code.
07 | Find the optimal way for the group of positions provided in the input file to move to the same position such that the total movement is minimized. Part 2 of the challenge introduces a slightly more complex formula for the cost of moving position.
08 | Model a 7-segment display. Part 1 asks how many times the digits 1, 4, 7 and 8 appear on the display.<br />Part 2 requires the numbers shown on the displays to be deduced.
09 | The input file contains a 2D array of data where each array cell is a single digit. Part 1 asks for a calculation over values lower than adjacent values. Part 2 separates the cells into groups and asks for a calculation based on the size of the groups.
10 | The input file contains a list of lines containing many different opening and closing symbols. The answer to part 1 is based on which lines are corrupt. Part 2 asks for a score based on the symbols that need to be added to correct incomplete lines.
11 | The challenge is a game of life type simulation. Part 1 asks for the state after a given number of iterations whereas part 2 asks for the simulation to be run until it enters a specific state.
12 | The challenge requires a path to be found through a series of connected nodes defined in the input file. Part 1 asks for the number of valid paths, and part 2 is similar but with more relaxed criteria that lead to a much larger set of valid paths.
13 | The input file defines dots placed on a 2D grid followed by instructions to fold the grid either horizontally or vertically along given lines. Part 1 asks for the number of visible dots after all folds are applied. Part 2 of the challenge requires all the folds to be processed and the output displayed to reveal characters forming the final answer.
14 | The input file contains a string and a set of transformation rules. Part 1 requires rules defined in the challenge to be applied repeatedly to obtain the answer. Part 2 increases the number of required iterations.
15 | The input file represents a 2D grid of digits. Part 1 asks for the path from the top-left corner to the bottom-right that minimizes total sum of digits.<br />🚦Part 2 has hot yet been attempted.
16 | The input file is a single hexadecimal string representing a hierarchy of data packets. Part 1 asks for the sum of the packets' version numbers. Part 2 requires calculations to be performed on the packets based on their type and which results in a single number for the outermost packet, which is the answer.
17 | The input file defines a target area, and part 1 asks for the highest trajectory a projectile can take to land in this area. Part 2 asks for the number of initial x and y velocity pairs that result in the projectile landing in this area.
18 | Each line of the input file represents a number in a format defined in the challenge. The challenge also describes math operations that can be performed on this number format. Part 1 asks for the numbers to be added together. Part 2 asks for a math operation to be performed on all pairs of lines in the input file to find the result with the largest magnitude.
19 | The challenge defines a 3D coordinate system within which are 28 scanners and multiple beacons. The input file contains a section for each scanner that lists the relative locations of all the beacons that that scanner can see. Part 1 asks for the number of unique beacons, which requires groups of beacons to be matched from the lists of different scanners. This is made harder by the orientation of the scanners not being known. The answer for part 2 requires the relative positions of the scanners to be determined.
20 | The input file contains binary data and the challenge specifies an operation that is performed on a group of bits in the data. Part 1 asks for the result of applying this operation and part 2 is the result of applying it 50 times.
21 | The challenge defines a dice game and the input file contains the starting positions of two players. Part 1 is to simulate a game until a player wins. The answer for part 2 involves analyzing all games that are possible from the given starting position.
22 | The challenge defines a 3D coordinate system where every cell is initially off. The input file is a list of rules that each either turn a specified group of cells on or off. Part 1 only considers a small region centered on the origin.<br />🚦Part 2 is in progress.
23 | 🚦Not yet attempted.
24 | 🚦Not yet attempted.
25 | 🚦Not yet attempted.
